Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to go through an example of implementing the observer.
This is going to be a simple application that demonstrates the observer pattern.
We're going to implement a simple topic that observers can register for.
So let's create a new project and let's call this one observer example
for this topic that observers can register for whenever any new message is posted to the topic.
All the registered observers will be notified and then they can consume the message.
I'm going to also implement this application so that observers can also ask subjects if there are any
updates.
So because sort of a pull method we're going to add a get update to the subject interface.
We're going to add a reference to the subject in the concrete observer and we're going to add a set
subject method in the concrete observer so that the observer knows its subject.
If the Update method of the concrete observer will then return the latest subject string.
So we're gonna start off by creating this subject interface.
So let's go out and say new Java class and we'll call it subject and we're going to say it's an interface.
So remember the subject knows it's observers.
It's going to contain a list observers observers to notify any number observer objects may observe a
subject.
This interface is provides for registration and de registration to observer objects.
These methods allow them to be added not added to the list.
There's also a method to notify all the observers of any change.
So let's get started.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to add the register and unregistered methods.
Right.
So methods to register and on register observers.
So we're just going to call those register.
It's going to take an observer which the class we haven't implemented yet.
Observer LBJ looks like this actually might be deprecated to you know I've got to get up to date on
my thing.
So our Observer class is going to be implemented and looks this is a interface no default behavior here
and then are on register
and register also taking an observer
and we'll fix that.
We need to have a method to notify observers of change.
And this one will be called Public void on register.
I'm sorry.
Notify observers to notify observers.
And then we're going to allow had a method to get it for getting updates from the subject.
This is required but we want to add this all observers can query to see if there is an update.
So something like this in the get update again we'll take an observer object.
We now need to update or create the observer interface.
So we're gonna say new Java class we're gonna call this observer and this is also going to be an interface
this one.
Remember the responsibilities of this object are it defines the updated interface for the objects that
should be notified of changes in a subject all potential observers need to implement this interface.
We're going to have a method called update which will be called to update the observer.
So method to update the observer used by the subject.
Public void Update.
We're also going to have our set subject.
This is gonna be attached with the subject to observe.
This will allow us to pull.
So there's gonna be attached with subjects observed not required but added so that the observer can
query the subject to see if an update has occurred.
Let's make sure this we don't need this.
So maybe those.
There we go.
Now let's carry the concrete subjects this cock.
The concrete objects will store state of interest to the concrete observer objects.
They'll send a notification to observers when it's state changes our subject is going to be named my
topic.
So we're gonna say.
Class my topic implements.
Subject.
Remember we have to have a list for all the observers.
We're also gonna have a message and we're going to have a boolean change that will tell us if something's
changed
so we're going to have a private list of the observers string message and boolean changed the constructor
is just going to create a new array list for the observers to store all of its observers.
So the constructors are pretty basic.
We then need to override the register in the UN register and the notified so the register is gonna take
an observer has a parameter.
Right now it's really going to do is add it to the list as long as it's not in the list already.
So Raj is going to take this observer if the objects null it's going to throw a new null pointer exception
if the observer is not currently in the Observer list it's going to add it and the Raja on register
is just going to try to remove it and if it's not in there it's no harm.
You don't have to check for that.
It's just going to go ahead and remove it if it's there if not fine.
The notify observers is gonna need to go through the list observers and if something is changed it's
going to actually update all the observers.
Let's go ahead.
This is an override and this is gonna be public void notify observers
and we're going to create a local object for our list.
This is gonna be observer contain observer objects and this is gonna be our observers local
and we first have to check if something's changed so we're gonna use our Boolean if something's changed
if nothing has changed.
We're just gonna return out of the method
and that's not always great.
Coding practice as well to have returns throughout the method usually just happen at the bottom.
But again we're not demonstrating that we're demonstrating the pattern.
So you could create a local variable and then return the bottom.
Otherwise we're gonna have our observers local equal to the new array list of the current observers.
This way we avoid any race conditions.
If something is added We're not going to we'll we'll get it right at this state.
So this observers.
This is the new list and then we're gonna set this dot changed equal to False and then we're just gonna.
Lastly we're gonna go through the list and call update on all the observers.
So for observer LBJ for all the local observers.
Again we're kind of saving the state there so we don't have a race condition where they object that
update.
And then we're gonna end this method.
We also need to implement our get update.
And this is just going to return a message.
So here we have public object get update for the Observer.
And it's just going to return the message to local variable or the member verbal.
Then we need to have a method to post the message to the topic to change the state.
All right.
If you don't change the state no observers are going to get updated.
So we have to be able to change the state.
So we're going to have a method called post message and this is going to set the state essentially post
a message to the chop to the topic.
This will be our trigger notification so we're going to print out some information and then we're going
to set our message to the message passed in change the state and then call notify observers.
So something like that.
And that does it for our Observer concrete observers.
Right.
Our my topic.
Let's have observers our message an hour changed a couple of things the notice notice the method implementation
of registering on register an observer very simple to do that right.
We just add to the list there's not a lot of code there.
The extra Method POST message that this will be used by the client application to post string messages
to the topic.
Notice that the boolean variable to keep track of the change in the state of topic and use in notifying
observers.
Those variables required so if there is no update.
And somebody calls notify observers.
It does not send false notifications to the observers.
Now let's create our concrete observers.
And remember the concrete observers are going to maintain a reference to a concrete subject.
They're going to store the state that should stay consistent with the subjects and they're also going
to implement the observer updating interface to keep it stay consistent with the subjects.
So we're going to say class my topic subscriber implements observer.
And this is going to have a name.
And it's also going to have a subject although the subject's not required.
We're just passing the subject since to so that we can attach.
So here we have our name and then our subject topic.
We could just pass the subject state to the update method.
But we also can use this to attach.
So now in the constructor we're going to set up our name.
What we typically do in most constructors and we're also going to override the update and the set subject
methods the update method looks like this.
Now this method could take data of subject state that was changed as a parameter and then we wouldn't
need to ask the topic for.
But what this method is doing is it's going to ask the topic to get the update.
And so it's going to get the message if the message is no it's going to print it out and say no new
message.
Otherwise it's going to say consuming message.
This is how we're doing a little bit of pull.
We're also got to implement our set subject method.
Again this is not required but we added it so we can.
So the observer can ask the subject for state right.
And so notice the implementation of the update method where it's calling to get update subjects get
update right to get the message to consume.
We could have avoided this.
I know I'm repeating myself but we could avoid this by passing the message as an argument to the update
method then we would not need a subject reference.
However this reference does allow us to have the observer ask the subject for state.
The last thing we need to do is create the client.
So we're going to say new Java class and we're in call this one client and this one is going to need
a main method.
So we're gonna say public static void main.
And this is gonna create our subject and then it's going to create three observers the observers are
just going to be named observer 1 2 and 3.
So here we create our subject then we create the observers first thing we have to do is we have to register
those observers with the subject.
So we're gonna call topic dot register passing in the observers.
Right.
And this again we could have added the registration as part of the observer constructor as well passing
in the subject.
But this is another way to do it.
We then want to attach the observer to the subject.
This is not required.
We could have passed it in the subject state to the update method.
So we can do something like this.
Now we can check if there's any update available by just saying object one dot update let's now try
to trigger an update by sending a message to the subject.
This will trigger a fire trigger then notify all.
So we're gonna call our post message on our topic.
Just posting a new message.
And when we call that you should see all the other observers receive it.
So let's try to compile this and see what happens.
Now we'll run the client and we should see all observers getting that information of a new message.
And you'll notice that when it called update there was no new message so here object one calls update.
No new message.
We now trigger a new message message posted to topic and all three objects get notified of that message
because the subject sees that the state has changed and it goes through its entire list and calls the
update method on the observer.
And then the observer will tell you if the message is change and print it out.
So this is the observer.
Again notice the decoupling of the subject in the Observer.
And notice how the client has to register and then also how we added some new implementation so we can
set the subject and we can pull for any updates.
Thank you.